{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2580
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-BoldMT;\f2\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-BoldItalicMT;
\f3\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f4\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\csgray\c0\c0;
}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww24780\viewh16840\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs48 \AppleTypeServices \cf2 \cb4 \ul \ulc2 CSE512\'a0Data Visualization\'a0(Spring 2022)\ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl560\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \ul Assignment 2: Deceptive Visualization
\fs32 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 \cb3 \ulnone \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa160\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \AppleTypeServices \cf2 \cb1 Data Used
\f0\b0 : In this assignment, I used student survey which asked students to report their perceptions of various items related to instructional support (from faculty, TAs, and peers), instructional interactions (with faculty and TAs), engagement, 
\f2\i\b belonging (used for deceptive visualization)
\f0\i0\b0 , peer harassment, task value, and self-efficacy. Survey participants also responded to multiple demographic items. The survey included five short answer questions which asked students to identify their primary expectations for 
\f2\i\b faculty support (used for earnest visualization) 
\f0\i0\b0 (one question), TA support (one question), and peer support (three questions).\'a0Student demographic characteristics were also collected. Demographic items retained for analysis included gender, race, and U.S. status as well as income and education of the student's family of origin.\'a0 Gender was effect coded as female (1), male (2), and non-binary (3). IRB (Internal Review Board) approval (STUDY00000378) was obtained to recruit and survey undergraduate students for this study between 2016 and 2021. \'a0\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 a) Earnest visualization description: 
\f0\b0 This visualization forecast student expectations of faculty support during in-person and online learning environment. In this earnest visualization is based on the responses that were received from a faculty support
\f3  
\f0 short answer survey question that was asked to engineering students in sophomore and junior level courses at a large public institution. 
\f3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qj\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf2 Students participated in the survey were enrolled in courses offered prior to the start of the COVID-19 pandemic (in-person class) and afterward (online class). The students were asked an open-ended question (my analysis question) in the survey, 
\f3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f2\i\b \cf2 "What one action can faculty take to improve your educational experience at a large public research institution in both in-person and online learning environment?\'94\
\pard\pardeftab720\qj\partightenfactor0

\f0\i0\b0 \cf2 \cb3 \
The answer to the question serves as our textual data input. One sample of student responses is provided below:
\f3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f4\i \cf2 \'93Do more examples, go over the lectures at a steady pace, explain more about the lab and homework.\'94
\f3\i0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qj\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf2 A researcher labels the topics that emerged from student responses into five categories namely, Assessment support, Homework support, Lecture support, Faculty-Student Interaction, and Instructor\'92s availability. While each category (label) contains a definition, for the purposes of this assignment, we will focus exclusively on labels name. These labels were inductively coded by the researcher which are then validated by an engineering education expert. 
\f3 \

\f0 \'a0
\f3 \

\f0 To answer my analysis question, I first visualized how I wanted the information to look in my mind, and I reasoned that using a bar chart would make the visualization easy to follow. The key points I wanted to emphasize in my design were to have all of the labels for both the learning environment and the student population on one axis and the sum of the student population on another.
\f3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qj\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf2 \cb3 \'a0
\f3 \

\f0 When we examine the earnest visualization, we see that the x-axis represents faculty support labels and the y-axis represents the total student population in both the in-person and online learning environments (legend: orange) (legend: blue).The earnest visualization demonstrates that students desired more assessment and lecture support from instructors in-person when compared to the online learning environment. On the other hand, we see that students' expectations for homework assistance, faculty-student interaction, and instructors' availability to students are higher in an online environment than in a face-to-face setting.
\f3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 \cb1 \'a0
\f3\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 b) Deceptive visualization description: 
\f0\b0 In deceptive visualization, we measure belonging which represents how well an individual feels that they are accepted in a particular context. Belonging is measured using four items that were adapted from the belonging scale developed by Anderson-Butcher & Conroy (2002) and validated in the class context in higher education studies (Wilson et al. 2015). The question that I want to answer through the deceptive visualization is 
\f3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f2\i\b \cf2 \'93Is there a difference in perceived sense of belonging by student gender at a large public research institute?\'94
\f3\i0\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf2 \'a0
\f3 \

\f0 To address my analysis question, I preferred to see the sense of belonging scale used in the data on one axis and all genders on the other. I thought it would be effective to compare the medians of all the genders using a box plot, which would demonstrate a clear difference in students' perceived sense of belonging based on their gender.
\f3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qj\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf2 \'a0
\f3 \

\f0 In deceptive visualization, the y-axis represents the scale of sense of belonging, while the x-axis represents the student gender. We can observe from the image that gender 3 has the lowest perceived sense of belonging, whereas gender 2 has the highest. However, unless we read the data description, it is not immediately evident which gender belongs to male, female, or non-binary.
\f3 \

\f0 \'a0
\f3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 Data analysis tool:
\f0\b0  All data analysis was carried out in Jupiter notebook, utilizing the seaborn and plotly libraries. Additionally, I included Altair from the assigned tutorials from the course\'a0into my dataset to create a variety of visualization models.
\f3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf2 \'a0
\f3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 \cf2 \cb3 References:
\f0\b0 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 \
[1] \AppleTypeServices Anderson-Butcher, D., & Conroy, D. E. (2002). Factorial and criterion validity of scores of a measure of belonging in youth development programs. Educational and Psychological Measurement, 62(5), 857\'96876.\
[2] Wilson, D., Jones, D., Bocell, F., Crawford, J., Kim, M. J., Veilleux, N., ... & Plett, M. (2015). Belonging and academic engagement among undergraduate STEM students: A multi-institutional study.\'a0
\f4\i \cb1 Research in Higher Education
\f0\i0 \cb3 ,\'a0
\f4\i \cb1 56
\f0\i0 \cb3 (7), 750-776.\cb1 \
\
\AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 \cb3 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\sa300\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs48 \AppleTypeServices \cf2 \
}